

Unfortunately, software has progressed much slower than expected.  At this point
in time we have do not have any formal or informal tests.  We have plans for
unit tests and automated integration testing that will make use of our existing
CLI interface available over serial.  We believe these will be in place for the
proper final report.

%We didn't do this stuff yet 
\iffalse

We plan to write automated or semi-automated tests for each component of our
project. Most of these tests will take the form of unit tests, test harnesses
that emulate adjacent modules or small test applications that exercise a single
module.

\subsubsection{Unit Tests}

We plan to build a simple unit testing framework that allows us to write unit
tests that can be compiled and run on a host system. These tests will target
individual functions and will aim to validate that they are correct.

It is unlikely that we will be able to achieve full test coverage due to time
constraints. We will therefore focus on unit testing areas of the code that
are difficult to write test harnesses for, such as sensor drivers and the SD
card driver.

\subsubsection{Sensor Driver Testing}

In addition to unit tests, we will test the sensor drivers with semi-automated
test applications that run on the microcontroller. These tests will provide
feedback over the USB-CDC interface and will interact with the actual sensor
hardware.  Our sensor tests will aim to exercise all of the functionality of the
sensors that our application code makes use of.

These tests will be in the form of small console applications that will take
a series of sensor readings and display them. These readings will be manually
verified, since automatic verification of output that is based on real world
inputs is difficult. Due to the difficulty in writing automated tests for the
sensor drivers, these drivers will be an area of focus for unit testing.

\subsubsection{Bluetooth Stack Testing}

Our Bluetooth related firmware components will be developed alongside the
companion software. As they are developed together we will test them together,
using each to verify the correct operation of the other. Much of this testing
will be performed manually as we anticipate that tests that require interaction
between our device and the companion software will be more difficult to
automate.

\subsubsection{SD Card Driver Testing}

We will test the SD card driver and filesystem software using test applications
that will run directly on the microcontroller. A test application that reads
and writes blocks on the SD card and a test application that is able to read
from and write to files will be developed in order to validate the functionality
of the SD card and filesystem code. These tests will be small console
applications that a user can interact with using the the USB-CDC interface.

\subsubsection{Data Logging Code Testing}

In order to test the data logging component of the project we will create a test
framework that runs on a desktop computer which will emulate the sensor input
and the filesystem components in order to ensure that the application layer
encryption and file packing design works as intended. This will allow the data
logging code to be developed and tested independently of the filesystem and SD
card drivers to allow for more parallel development. This test framework will
create snapshots of the outputted data for a set of input conditions and ensure
that any updates to the logging code either does not change the output to ensure
nothing is broken during development, or if there is an error in these snapshots
then the snapshots will be updated.

\fi
